https://www.cloudyml.com/job-interviews/

1.     What are the ML techniques you've used in projects?
2.     Very first question was PCA? Why use PCA?
3.     Types of Clustering techniques (Not algorithms)? Which Clustering techniques will you use in which Scenario - example with a Program?
4.     OCR - What type of OCR did you use in your project - Graphical or Non - Graphical?
5.     OCR - What is a Noise? What types of noise will you face when performing OCR? Handwritten can give more than 70% accuracy when I wrote in 2012 but you're saying 40%.
6.     Logistic Regression vs Linear Regression with a real-life example - explain?
7.     Is Decision tree Binary or multiple why use them?
8.     Do you know Map Reduce and ETL concepts?
9.     What is a Dictionary or Corpus in NLP and how do you build it? 
10.  How do you basically build a Dictionary, Semantic Engine, Processing Engine in a NLP project, where does all the Synonyms (Thesaurus words go).
11.  What are the Types of Forecasting? What are the ML and DL models for forecasting (He said Fast-forwarding models as example) other than Statistical (ARIMA) models you've used in your projects? 
12.  What is a Neural Network? Types of Neural Networks you know?
13.  Write a Decision Tree model with a Python Program.
14.  How do you build an AZURE ML model? What are all the Azure products you've used? I said Azure ML Studio.
15.  Cibil score is an example for Fuzzy model and not a Classification model.
16.  What is an outlier give a real life example? how do you find them and eliminate them? I gave an example of calculating Average salary of an IT employee. 

1.     G values, P values, T values
2.     Conditional Probability
3.     Central Values of Tendency
4.     Can Linear Regression be used for Classification? If Yes, why if No why?
5.     Hypothesis Testing. Null and Alternate hypothesis
6.     Derivation of Formula for Linear and logistic Regression
7.     Where to start a Decision Tree. Why use Decision Trees?
8.     PCA Advantages and Disadvantages?
9.     Why Bayes theorem? DB Bayes and Naïve Bayes Theorem?
10.  Central Limit Theorem? 
11.  R packages in and out? For us it's Python Packages in and out.
12.  Scenario based question on when to use which ML model?
13.  Over Sampling and Under Sampling
14.  Over Fitting and Under Fitting
15.  Core Concepts behind Each ML model.
16.  Genie Index Vs Entropy
17.  how to deal with imbalance data in classification modelling? SMOTHE techniques

1.     How many cars are there in Chennai? How do u structurally approach coming up with that number?
2.     Multiple Linear Regression?
3.     OLS vs MLE?
4.     R2 vs Adjusted R2? During Model Development which one do we consider?
5.     Lift chart, drift chart
6.     Sigmoid Function in Logistic regression
7.     ROC what is it? AUC and Differentiation?
8.     Linear Regression from Multiple Linear Regression
9.     P-Value what is it and its significance? What does P in P-Value stand for? What is Hypothesis Testing? Null hypothesis vs Alternate Hypothesis?
10.  Bias Variance Trade off?
11.  Over fitting vs Underfitting in Machine learning?
12.  Estimation of Multiple Linear Regression
13.  Forecasting vs Prediction difference? Regression vs Time Series?
14.  p,d,q values in ARIMA models
1.     What will happen if d=0
2.     What is the meaning of p,d,q values?
15.  Is your data for Forecasting Uni or multi-dimensional?
16.  How to find the nose to start with in a Decision tree.
17.  TYPES of Decision trees - CART vs C4.5 vs ID3
18.  Genie index vs entropy
19.  Linear vs Logistic Regression
20.  Decision Trees vs Random Forests
21.  Questions on liner regression, how it works and all
22.  Asked to write some SQL queries
23.  Asked about past work experience
24.  Some questions on inferential statistics (hypothesis testing, sampling techniques)
25.  Some questions on table (how to filter, how to add calculated fields etc)
26.  Why do u use Licensed Platform when other Open source packages are available?
27.  What certification Have u done?
28.  What is a Confidence Interval?
29.  What are Outliers? How to Detect Outliers?
30.  How to Handle Outliers?

1. Explain your Projects
2. Assumptions in Multiple linear regression
3. Decision tree algorithm
4. Gini index
5. Entropy
6. Formulas of gini and entropy
7. Random forest algorithm
8. XGBoost Algorithm
9. Central Limit theorem
10. R2
11. Adj R2
12. VIF
13. Different Methods to measure Accuracy
14. Explain Bagging and Boosting
15. Difference Between Bagging and Boosting
16. Various Ensemble techniques
17. P value and it’s significance
18. F1 Score
19. Type 1 and Type II error
20. Logical questions for Type 1 and Type II error
21. Logical questions for Null and alternate Hypothesis

1. Decorators in Python
- Live Example
2. Generators in Python
- Live Example

3. SQL Questions

3.1 Group by Top 2 Salaries for Employees
3.2 use Row num and Partition

4. Pandas find Numeric and Categorical Columns.
4.1 For Numeric columns, find the mean of the entire column and add that value to each row of the column.

5. What is Gradient Descent?
5.1 What is Learning Rate and Why is it reduce sometimes

6. Two Logistic Regression Models - Which one will you choose - One is trained on 70% and other on 80% data. Accuracy is almost same.
7. What is LogLoss ?

8. Explain your Projects end to end.(15-20mins)

1. What is mean and median
2. Difference between normal and gaussian
distribution
3. What is central limit theorem
4. What is null hypothesis
5. What is confidence interval
6. What is covariance and correlation and how will u
interpret it.
7. How will you find out the outliers in the dataset
and is it always to remove outliers
8. Explain about Machine Learning
9. Explain the algorithm of your choice
10. Different methods of missing values imputation
11. Explain me your ml project
12. How did you handle imbalance dataset
13. What is stratified samplings
14. Difference between standard scalar and normal
scalar
15. Different type of visualization in Dl project

16. What architecture have you used
17. Why have u not used RNN in your nlp project
18. Why we don't prefer CNN in nlp based project
19 What is exploding gradient and vanishing gradient and how to rectify it
20. Difference between LSTM and GRU
21. What is precision and recall
22 What is auc metic
23. What if your precision and recall are same

1. Naive bayes assumptions
2. What are the approaches for solving class imbalance problem?
3. When sampling what types of biases can be inflected? How to control the biases?
4. GRU is faster compared to LSTM. Why?
5. What is difference between K-NN and K-Means clustering ?
6. How to determine if a coin is biased ? Hint: Hypothesis testing
7. How will u present the statistical inference of a particular numerical column?
8. How would you design a data science pipeline ?
9. Explain back propagation in few words and it’s variants?
10. Explain topic modeling in NLP and various methods in performing topic modeling.

How to reverse a linked list

Give a logistic regression model in production, how would you find out the coefficients of different input features.

What is the p- value in OLS regression

What's the reason for high bias or variance

Which models are generally high biased or high variance

Write code to find the 8 highest value in the DataFrame

What's difference between array and list

Whats the difference between Gradient boosting and Xgboost

Is XOR data linearly separable

How do we classify XOR data using logistic regression

Some questions from my previous projects

Given a sand timer of 4 and 7 mins how would you calculate 10 mins duration.

What's the angle between hour and minute hand in clock as 3:15

1. How do check the Normality of a dataset?
2. Difference Between Sigmoid and Softmax functions?
3. Can logistic regression use for more than 2 classes?
4. What are Loss Function and Cost Functions? Explain the key Difference Between them?
5. What is F1 score? How would you use it?
6. In a neural network, what if all the weights are initialized with the same value?
7. Why should we use Batch Normalization?
8. In a CNN, if the input size 5 X 5 and the filter size is 7 X 7, then what would be the size of the output?
9. What do you mean by exploding and vanishing gradients?
10. What are the applications of transfer learning in Deep Learning?
11. Why does a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) work better with image data?

1. What is the Central Limit Theorem and why is it important?
2. What is the difference between type I vs type II error?
3. Tell me the difference between an inner join, left join/right join, and union.
4. Explain the 80/20 rule, and tell me about its importance in model validation.
5. What is one way that you would handle an imbalanced data set that’s being used for prediction (i.e., vastly more negative classes than positive classes)?
6. Is it better to spend five days developing a 90-percent accurate solution or 10 days for 100-percent accuracy?
7. Most common characteristics used in descriptive statistics?
8. What do you mean by degree of freedom?
9. Why is the t-value same for 90% two tail and 95% one tail test?
10. What does it mean if a model is heteroscedastic? what about homoscedastic?
11. You roll a biased coin (p(head)=0.8) five times. What’s the probability of getting three or more heads?
12. What does interpolation and extrapolation mean? Which is generally more accurate?
Question 10 --- Variance in the error term is high and not kind of a very stable model.

1. What is central tendency
2. Which central tendency method is used If there exists any outliers
3. Central limit theorem
4. Chi-Square test
5. A/B testing
6. Difference between Z and t distribution (Linked to A/B testing)
7. Outlier treatment method
8. ANOVA test
9. Cross validation
10. How will you work in a machine learning project if there is a huge imbalance in the data
11. Formula of sigmoid function
12. Can we use sigmoid function in case of multiple classification (I said no)
13. Then which function is used
14. What is Area under the curve
15. Which metric is used to split a node in Decision Tree
16. What is ensemble learning

1. Inferential and descriptive Statistics
2. Sample
3. Population
4. Random variables
5. Probability Distribution Function
6. Probability Mass Function
7. Cumulative Distribution Function
8. Expectation and Variance
9. Binomial Distribution
10. Bernoulli Distribution
11. Normal Distribution
12. Z-score
13. Central Limit Theorem
14. Hypothesis Testing
15. Confidence Interval
16. Chi Square Test
17. Anova Test
18. F-Stats

Python :
1. Is python a language that follows pass by value, or pass by reference or pass by object reference
2. What are lambda functions and how to use them
3. Difference between mutable and immutable objects with example.
4. What are Python decorators? Why do we use them

SQL :
1. What is the difference between Inner join and left inner join ?
2. What are window functions ?
3. What is the use of groupby ?

SQL Round
3 tables given as below:

TRIPS
trip_id
vehicle_id
start_time
stop_time

VEHICLE_MAKE
vehicle_id
make_id

MAKES
make_id
make_name

There is a table which contains vehicle trips. Trips are not necessarily in order.

There is a table which contains vehicle makes. Makes are not necessarily known.

PROBLEM: Write SQL code that provides the number of trips that started on September 1st, 2020 for each vehicle with a KNOWN make. 
Order the results by the trip count.

op
 vehicle_id | trip_count 
     4 |     2
     1 |     1
     2 |     1



1.Difference between array and list
2.Map function
3. Scenario,
if coupon distributed randomly to customers of swiggy, how to check there buying behaviour.
Use segmenting customers
Compare customers who got coupon and who did not
4. Which is faster dictionary or list for look up
5. How to merge two arrays
6. How much time svm takes to complete if 1 iteration takes 10sec for 1st class.
And there are 4 classes.
7. Kernals in svm, there difference

1.RNN, NN and CNN difference.
2. Supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning with there algo example.
3. Difference between ai, ml and dl
4. How u do dimentionality reduction.
5. What is Multicollinearity
6. Parameters of random forest
7 . Parametera of deep learning algos
8. Different feature selection methods
9. Confusion matrix

A continuous variable is having missing values, so how will you decide that the missing values should be imputed by mean or median?
What is PCA and what each component means? Also, what is the maximum value for number of components?
What is test of independence? How do you calculate Chi-square value?
When precision is preferred over recall or vice-versa?
Advantages and disadvantages of Random forest over Decision Tree?
What is the c hyperparameter in SVM algorithm and how it affects bias variance tradeoff?
What are the assumptions of linear regression?
Difference between Stemming and Lemmatization?
Difference between Correlation and Regression?
What is p-value and confidence interval?
What is multicollinearity and how do you deal with multicollinearity? What is VIF?
What is the difference between apply, applymap and map function in python?